---

title:  "Armoured Combat and Shire Nights, Autumn 2018"
date:   2018-10-05 12:15:00 +0000
categories: heavy
author: nessa
---
Do you want to do medieval combat?

SCA Armoured Combat practices are confirmed to take place EVERY THURSDAY at Scoil Santa Maria, Synge Street, until 20 December (inclusive) at which point we take a well-deserved Christmas break. The practices will formally start at 7 pm, and end at 9.30 pm (yes that's longer than before).

CLASSES: As of 25 October, we will begin an Armoured Fighting course of 7 weeks, each night of a structured practice, with each class building up from previous weeks. We will be starting from scratch, so if you have ever fancied trying out armoured fighting but haven't got around to it, this is the perfect time.

The classes will include warmup, discussion about concepts, technique work, slow work, sparring, and cooldown. You do NOT NEED to own any kit.

OPEN PRACTICE = Standard SCA practice, you get together, in or out of armour, you work on your own stuff, spar, etc.

TOURNAMENT: On 13 December, we will hold a St Lucia Day tourney, and we would very much welcome spectators.

COSTS: We have revised our cost structure. You can pay €8 per night, or you can pay €75 for the entire 11-week autumn term, in advance, saving yourself some money. (Unfortunately, no refunds are available if you find you'll make it to fewer sessions than you expected; we still need to pay for the venue!)

SHIRE NIGHTS: During the Thursday practices we will also have access to the school kitchen/teachers room. We encourage our non-fighting friends to come along for socialising and chats. We'll post separately about dedicated Arts & Sciences nights. There will be light refreshments served, and we would ask any non-fighter who comes along to donate €2 towards this. Come along, hang out, observe, bring whatever medieval projects you're working on.

Armoured practice schedule (Also available on the shire's Google calendar):

11 October - Open practice  
18 October - Open practice  
25 October - Class 1  
1 November - Class 2  
8 November - Class 3  
15 November - Open practice  
22 November - Class 4  
29 November - Class 5  
6 December - Class 6  
13 December - St Lucia Tourney  
20 December - Class 7

PLANS FOR 2019 include more special practices with visiting teachers, and Cruinniú II - watch this space.

Lady Agnes des Illes, Knight Marshal