---
title:  "Booking open for Cruinniú - with a very special guest"
date:   2019-12-02 20:00:00 +0000
categories: cruinniu2020 event
author: nessa
---
All the lovely fighters, put your shields up!

The time has come again to gather together on the green fields on Lough Devnaree to learn about the Art of Armoured Combat.

This year, we are doing so with immense pride, as our visiting teacher will be none other than **Duke Sean Kirkpatrick Tarragon** (MKA Sean Oppenheimer) from Artemisia, a Knight of the Society for more than 32 years. He is one of the preeminent trainers of SCA combat in the Known World today. He specializes in training the trainer, training methodology, teaching fighting analysis and video review. He has been training fighters all around the globe for more than 15 years and has taught his specific fighting clinic in more than half of the Kingdoms.

Duke Sean will be teaching his fighting clinic on Saturday and Sunday. **We have extended our usual site booking until 18:00 on Sunday, so please take this into account in planning your travel.**

The site is **very easily accessible from Dublin airport:** you can drive in 60-90 minutes (traffic allowing) along motorways, or you can take a bus or coach to the city centre and take a 1 hr train journey to within a short walking distance of the site. Lifts from Dublin airport may also be available. Bedding is provided for all sleeping in bunks, and as usual all meals are included in the costs. Camping and crash space will be available at reduced price.

[More information and booking...](/events/2020/cruinniu)