---
title:  "Imbolc is approaching"
date:   2026-01-18 21:00:00 +0000
categories: event
---

Good gentlefolk, we have news for you regarding Imbolc's A&S Display.

Calling all artisans to bring forth the fruits of your craft, knowledge and research and share your light (literally) to welcome the coming of Spring.

At Imbolc we will have an A&S display with the theme of "light". All entries that relate to or invoke the theme are welcome, and artisans are encouraged to be creative in their interpretation. Entries do not need to be created specifically for the display; artisans are welcome to enter something they have previously made. Entries do not need to be physical items; research entries are very welcome.

Documentation of your entry is encouraged but not strictly required. We encourage you to include a short document in your entry with
your SCA name
a short description of the item
its connection to the theme and your inspiration
what period and location it is attributed to
any other information you would like to include (optional), e.g., how was it made in period, and who would have used it? What tools, materials and practices were used (and did you do anything differently in your entry?) You could also include sources you used for your research, describe your process for creating your entry, or talk about what you learned from creating it.
All attendees are cordially invited to view the display, discuss their entries with participants and ask questions.

If you wish to participate in the display, please contact Ingemar of Dun in Mara on Discord, email (nadja@ef.gy) or at the event so we can allocate a table to you.

For more info on Imbolc, see the [dedicated event page here](/events/2026/imbolc/)